---
template: BlogPost
path: /article-fifteen
date: 2020-06-01T07:40:27.217Z
title: Article 15
thumbnail: /assets/94921_1_large.jpg
---
Anubhav Sinha's 'Article 15' is designed like a crime thriller. And what works for the film is that it's thought provoking, hard hitting while unflinchingly bringing to light burning social issues.\
\
The film is heavy on atmospherics, with the top notch cinematography (Ewan Mulligan) and background score adding to the mood. The feel is grim, gritty and grey often bringing a chill to the bone with palpable tension in the air. The images - some provocative and uncomfortable stand out, like the one where a man goes deep into a drain to unclog it and emerges soaked in the filth or the top shot of a group of policemen conducting a search in a swamp with their torchlights. The dialogues leave an impact. And the director brings out subtle nuances through his characters and setting which add to the essence of the narrative. The film's storyline, interspersed with powerful and poignant moments leaves you with goose-bumps. The narrative definitely keeps you on the edge, but there are times when it feels a tad overstuffed as the layers, political intricacies and a multitude of characters seep in. And at times the pace dips.\
\
But certainly, the performances by an ace set of actors is one of the high points of the film. Ayushmann Khurana has you hooked instantly, belting out a riveting performance as the sincere, determined police officer. It's an intense, gripping act as he gets under the skin of his character. Other noteworthy scene stealers include actors Manoj Pahwa, Kumud Mishra and Mohammed Zeeshan Ayub, in a short but impactful role as Nishad.\
\
'Article 15' is not a light watch, but it is definitely relevant, compelling and a film that will spark conversation.

**Tailer**:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/HKOJY0cU63E" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

**You need VLC player to watch this film.**

Download from here: **[Click here](https://we.tl/t-lWHU8gBN7N)**: (Link expires in 7 days from today).
